# JWT attacks

## **Exploiting flawed JWT signature verification**

### **Accepting arbitrary signatures**

JWT libraries typically provide one method for verifying tokens and another that just decodes them. For example, the Node.js library `jsonwebtoken` has `verify()` and `decode()`.

Occasionally, developers confuse these two methods and only pass incoming tokens to the `decode()` method. This effectively means that the application doesn't verify the signature at all.

### **Accepting tokens with no signature**

JWTs can be signed using a range of different algorithms, but can also be left unsigned. In this case, the `alg` parameter is set to `none`, which indicates a so-called "unsecured JWT". Due to the obvious dangers of this, servers usually reject tokens with no signature. However, as this kind of filtering relies on string parsing, you can sometimes bypass these filters using classic obfuscation techniques, such as mixed capitalization and unexpected encodings.
        

## **Brute-forcing secret keys**

Some signing algorithms, such as HS256 (HMAC + SHA-256), use an arbitrary, standalone string as the secret key. Just like a password, it's crucial that this secret can't be easily guessed or brute-forced by an attacker. Otherwise, they may be able to create JWTs with any header and payload values they like, then use the key to re-sign the token with a valid signature.

When implementing JWT applications, developers sometimes make mistakes like forgetting to change default or placeholder secrets. They may even copy and paste code snippets they find online, then forget to change a hardcoded secret that's provided as an example. In this case, it can be trivial for an attacker to brute-force a server's secret using a [wordlist of well-known secrets](https://github.com/wallarm/jwt-secrets/blob/master/jwt.secrets.list).

[jwt-secrets/jwt.secrets.list at master · wallarm/jwt-secrets](https://github.com/wallarm/jwt-secrets/blob/master/jwt.secrets.list)

### **Brute-forcing secret keys using hashcat**

Hashcat signs the header and payload from the JWT using each secret in the wordlist, then compares the resulting signature with the original one from the server

**usage:**

```bash
hashcat -a 0 -m 16500 <jwt> <wordlist>
```

## **JWT header parameter injections**

According to the JWS specification, only the `alg` header parameter is mandatory. In practice, however, JWT headers (also known as JOSE headers) often contain several other parameters. The following ones are of particular interest to attackers.

- `jwk` (JSON Web Key) - Provides an embedded JSON object representing the key.
- `jku` (JSON Web Key Set URL) - Provides a URL from which servers can fetch a set of keys containing the correct key.
- `kid` (Key ID) - Provides an ID thatservers can use to identify the correct key in cases where there aremultiple keys to choose from. Depending on the format of the key, this may have a matching `kid` parameter.

### **Injecting self-signed JWTs via the jwk parameter**

The JSON Web Signature (JWS) specification describes an optional `jwk` header parameter, which servers can use to embed their public key directly within the token itself in JWK format.

Ideally, servers should only use a limited whitelist of public keys to verify JWT signatures. However, misconfigured servers sometimes use any key that's embedded in the `jwk` parameter.

You can exploit this behavior by signing a modified JWT using your own RSA private key, then embedding the matching public key in the `jwk` header.

### **Injecting self-signed JWTs via the jku parameter**

Instead of embedding public keys directly using the `jwk` header parameter, some servers let you use the `jku` (JWK Set URL) header parameter to reference a JWK Set containing the 
key. When verifying the signature, the server fetches the relevant key from this URL.

JWK Sets are sometimes exposed publicly via a standard endpoint, such as `/.well-known/jwks.json`.

More secure websites will only fetch keys from trusted domains, but you can sometimes take advantage of URL parsing discrepancies to bypass this kind of filtering. We covered some [examples of these](https://portswigger.net/web-security/ssrf#ssrf-with-whitelist-based-input-filters) in our topic on SSRF.

### **Injecting self-signed JWTs via the kid parameter**

Servers may use several cryptographic keys for signing different kinds of data, not just JWTs. For this reason, the header of a JWT may contain a `kid` (Key ID) parameter, which helps the server identify which key to use when verifying the signature.

Verification keys are often stored as a JWK Set. In this case, the server may simply look for the JWK with the same `kid` as the token. However, the JWS specification doesn't define a concrete 
structure for this ID - it's just an arbitrary string of the developer's choosing. For example, they might use the `kid` parameter to point to a particular entry in a database, or even the name of a file. 

If this parameter is also vulnerable to directory traversal, an attacker could potentially force the server to use an arbitrary file from its filesystem as the verification key.

```json
{
    "kid": "../../path/to/file",
    "typ": "JWT",
    "alg": "HS256",
    "k": "asGsADas3421-dfh9DGN-AFDFDbasfd8-anfjkvc"
}
```

This is especially dangerous if the server also supports JWTs signed using a [symmetric algorithm](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion#symmetric-vs-asymmetric-algorithms). In this case, an attacker could potentially point the `kid` parameter to a predictable, static file, then sign the JWT using a secret that matches the contents of this file.

You could theoretically do this with any file, but one of the simplest methods is to use `/dev/null`, which is present on most Linux systems. As this is an empty file, 
reading it returns an empty string. Therefore, signing the token with a empty string will result in a valid signature.

### **Other interesting JWT header parameters**

The following header parameters may also be interesting for attackers:

- `cty` (Content Type) - Sometimes used to declare a media type for the content in the JWT payload. This is usually omitted from the header, but the underlying parsing library may support it anyway. If you have found a way to bypass signature verification, you can try injecting a `cty` header to change the content type to `text/xml` or `application/x-java-serialized-object`, which can potentially enable new vectors for [XXE](https://portswigger.net/web-security/xxe) and [deserialization](https://portswigger.net/web-security/deserialization) attacks.
- `x5c` (X.509 Certificate Chain) - Sometimes used to pass the X.509 public key certificate or certificate chain of the key used to digitally sign the JWT. This header parameter can be used to inject self-signed certificates, similar to the [`jwk` header injection](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt#injecting-self-signed-jwts-via-the-jwk-parameter) attacks discussed above. Due to the complexity of the X.509 format and its extensions, parsing these certificates can also introduce vulnerabilities. Details of these attacks are beyond the scope of these materials, but for more details, check out [CVE-2017-2800](https://talosintelligence.com/vulnerability_reports/TALOS-2017-0293) and [CVE-2018-2633](https://mbechler.github.io/2018/01/20/Java-CVE-2018-2633).

## **Algorithm confusion attacks**

## Performing an algorithm confusion attack

An algorithm confusion attack generally involves the following high-level steps:

1. [Obtain the server's public key](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion#step-1-obtain-the-server-s-public-key)
2. [Convert the public key to a suitable format](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion#step-2-convert-the-public-key-to-a-suitable-format)
3. [Create a malicious JWT](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion#step-3-modify-your-jwt) with a modified payload and the `alg` header set to `HS256`.
4. [Sign the token with HS256](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion#step-4-sign-the-jwt-using-the-public-key), using the public key as the secret.

[Algorithm confusion attacks | Web Security Academy](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion)

## Labs

[**JWT authentication bypass via unverified signature**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/lab-jwt-authentication-bypass-via-unverified-signature)

```markdown
# Web Application doesn't verify signature. Changing user value to              Administrator, leads to privilege escalation.
```

[**JWT authentication bypass via flawed signature verification**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/lab-jwt-authentication-bypass-via-flawed-signature-verification)

```markdown
# Web Application doesn't verify alg parameter. Changing alg parameter to none, leads to privlege escalation.
```

[**JWT authentication bypass via weak signing key**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/lab-jwt-authentication-bypass-via-weak-signing-key)

```markdown
# Crack the signing key via hashcat
hashcat -a 0 -m 16500 <jwt> <wordlist>
# Sign the JWT with cracked key
1. JWT Editor Tab -> New Symmetric Key -> Sign
2. jwt.io
```

[**JWT authentication bypass via jwk header injection**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/lab-jwt-authentication-bypass-via-jwk-header-injection)

```markdown
# Web Application supports the jwk parameter in JWT header and fails to check   whether the provided key came from a trusted source.
# Embedd created JWK key to the JWT header 
1. JWT Editor Tab -> New RSA Key -> Embedded JWK
```

[**JWT authentication bypass via jku header injection**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/lab-jwt-authentication-bypass-via-jku-header-injection)

```markdown
# Web Application supports the jku parameter in the JWT header. However, it     fails to check whether the provided URL belongs to a trusted domain before fetching the key. 
# Generate new RSA Key
1. JWT Editor Tab -> New RSA Key
# Copy generated RSA Key
2. Right click generated RSA Key -> Copy Public Key as JWK
# Paste the JWK into the keys array on the exploit server
{
    "keys": [
        {
            "kty": "RSA",
            "e": "AQAB",
            "kid": "893d8f0b-061f-42c2-a4aa-5056e12b8ae7",
            "n": "yy1wpYmffgXBxhAUJzHHocCuJolwDqql75ZWuCQ_cb33K2vh9mk6GPM9gNN4Y_qTVX67WhsN3JvaFYw"
        }
    ]
}
# In the header of the JWT, replace the current value of the kid parameter with the kid of the JWK that uploaded to the exploit server. 
# Add a new jku parameter to the header of the JWT. Set its value to the URL of JWK Set on the exploit server. 
# In the payload, change the value of the sub claim to administrator.
# Sign the JWT Payload with generated Key
{
  "kid": "sectest",
  "alg": "RS256",
  "jku": "https://exploit-ID.exploit-server.net/exploit"
}
{
  "iss": "portswigger",
  "exp": 1778443758,
  "sub": "administrator"
}
```

[**JWT authentication bypass via kid header path traversal**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/lab-jwt-authentication-bypass-via-kid-header-path-traversal)

```markdown
# Web Application doesn't properly validate kid parameter. Changing it to the ../../../dev/null, leads to the privilege escalation.
# Set the kid parameter to the ../../../dev/null as it return empty file.       Therefore signing the token with a empty string will result in a valid signature
{
    "kid": "../../../../dev/null",
    "alg": "HS256"
}
# Sign the JWT token with empty key
1. JWT Editor -> Attack -> Sign with empty key
```

[**JWT authentication bypass via algorithm confusion**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion/lab-jwt-authentication-bypass-via-algorithm-confusion)

[**JWT authentication bypass via algorithm confusion with no exposed key**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion/lab-jwt-authentication-bypass-via-algorithm-confusion-with-no-exposed-key)