# Race Conditions

## **Limit overrun race conditions**

### **Detecting and exploiting limit overrun race conditions with Burp Repeater**

- Sending the group of requests in `Parallel`
- Validate Race Conditions using **`Custom actions`** side panel.

### **Detecting and exploiting limit overrun race conditions with Turbo Intruder**

- Send request to Turbo Intruder
    - **race-single-packet-attack.py (** incompatible with **HTTP/1 )**
    - **race-multi-endpoint.py**

## **Hidden multi-step sequences**

### Methodology for identifying and exploiting race conditions

- Predict potential collisions
    - **Is this endpoint security critical?**
    - **Is there any collision potential?**
- Probe for clues
    - **Benchmark how the endpoint behaves under normal conditions**
    - **Send the same group of requests at once using the single-packet attack**
    - **Look for some form of deviation from what you observed during benchmarking**
- Prove the concept
    - **Try to understand what’s happening, remove superfluous requests, and make sure you can still replicate the effects**

## **Multi-endpoint race conditions**

Think about the classic logic flaw in online stores where you add an item to your basket or cart, pay for it, then add more items to the cart before force-browsing to the order confirmation page.

A variation of this vulnerability can occur when payment validation and order confirmation are performed during the processing of a single request.

For example, you can potentially add more items to your basket during the race window between when the payment is validated and when the order is finally confirmed. 

### Connection warming

Back-end connection delays don't usually interfere with race condition attacks because they typically delay parallel requests equally, so the requests stay in sync.

It's essential to be able to distinguish these delays from those caused by endpoint-specific factors. One way to do this is by "warming" the connection with one or more inconsequential requests to see if this smoothes out the remaining processing times. In Burp Repeater, you can 
try adding a `GET` request for the homepage to the start of your tab group, then using the **Send group in sequence (single connection)** option.

### **Abusing rate or resource limits**

 If connection warming doesn't make any difference, there are various solutions to this problem. 

 Web servers often delay the processing of requests if too many are sent too quickly. By sending a large number of dummy requests to intentionally trigger the rate or resource limit, you may be able to cause a suitable server-side delay. This makes the single-packet attack viable even when delayed execution is required. 

## **Single-endpoint race conditions**

Sending parallel requests with different values to a single endpoint can sometimes trigger powerful race conditions. 

Consider a password reset mechanism that stores the user ID and reset token in the user's session.

In this scenario, sending two parallel password reset requests from the same session, but with two different usernames, could potentially the collision

Email address confirmations, or any email-based operations, are generally a good target for single-endpoint race conditions. Emails are often sent in a background thread after the server issues the HTTP response to the client, making race conditions more likely. 

## **Partial construction race conditions**

Many applications create objects in multiple steps, which may introduce a temporary middle state in which the object is exploitable.

For example, when registering a new user, an application may create the user in the database and set their API key using two separate SQL statements. This leaves a tiny window in which the user exists, but their API key is uninitialized.

This kind of behavior paves the way for exploits whereby you inject an input value that returns something matching the uninitialized database value, such as an empty string, or `null` in JSON, and this is compared as part of a security control

## **Time-sensitive attacks**

Sometimes you may not find race conditions, but the techniques for delivering requests with precise timing can still reveal the presence of other vulnerabilities. 

One such example is when high-resolution timestamps are used instead of cryptographically secure random strings to generate security tokens.

Consider a password reset token that is only randomized using a timestamp. In this case, it might be possible to trigger two password resets for two different users, which both use the same token. All you need to do is time the requests so that they generate the same timestamp.

**Wordlists**

```php
    # regular wordlist
    for line in open('disc_words.txt'):
        engine.queue(target.req, line.rstrip())

    # clipboard, split on lines
    for word in wordlists.clipboard:
        engine.queue(target.req, word)
```

## Labs

[**Limit overrun race conditions**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/race-conditions/lab-race-conditions-limit-overrun)

`Add item to card and send *POST /cart/coupon* request to **Turbo Intruder** or Send the group of requests in **Parallel** or use **Custom actions** side panel`

[**Bypassing rate limits via race conditions**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/race-conditions/lab-race-conditions-bypassing-rate-limits)

`Send ***POST /login*** request to **Turbo Intruder**. Use ***race-single-packet-attack***. Note to specify Wordlists accordingly`

[**Multi-endpoint race conditions**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/race-conditions/lab-race-conditions-multi-endpoint)

`Send both the *POST /cart* and *POST /cart/checkout* request to Burp Repeater. Notice from the response times that the first request consistently takes significantly longer than the second one, so add “warm-up” requests *GET /cart*. Send all three requests in sequence over a single connection. Observe that the first request still takes longer, but by "warming" the connection in this way, the second and third requests are now completed within a much smaller window.` `This time send requests in parallel to bypass  validation`

[**Single-endpoint race conditions**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/race-conditions/lab-race-conditions-single-endpoint)

`In Repeater, create a new group containing two copies of the *POST /my-account/change-email* request. Change the email parameter of the first request to owned email and second one to target email. Send requests in Parallel and check mailbox to confirm changing to target email.`

[**Partial construction race conditions**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/race-conditions/lab-race-conditions-partial-construction)

`Note ***users.js*** file to gather information about confirmation endpoint. Then send two requests - ***POST /register*** and ***POST /confirm?token[]=*** using Turbo Intruder **race-multi-endpoint.py.** Observe that one of the confirmation endpoint gets 200 status code, indicating successfully bypassing of privileged registration ****`

[**Exploiting time-sensitive vulnerabilities**](https://portswigger.net/web-security/race-conditions/lab-race-conditions-exploiting-time-sensitive-vulnerabilities)

`In Repeater, go to the pair of ***POST /forgot-password*** requests and change the username parameter in one of them to arbitrary user. Send the two requests in **parallel** and note that owned and arbitrary user have same reset token. NOTE that session cookie suggests that the website uses a PHP back-end. This could mean that the server only processes one request at a time per session.`